the Gaza Health Ministry says at least
500 people have been killed in a strike
on a hospital which said was said to be
filled with wounded and those seeking
shelter Palestinian president Mahmud
abas declared three days of mourning
after the strike on the Ahi Arab
Hospital in Gaza City the wh has
condemned the attack and Egypt has
called on the International Community to
intervene an Israeli military spokesman
has said there were no details on the
blast and let's get across we can get on
the line with uh Hassam Bia a journalist
joining us on the phone from Central
Gaza to give us an update um welcome
what can you tell us about the strike on
this
Hospital according to the civil defense
that I talk to the uh spokesperson there
and he said that um um there are uh uh
hundreds or thousands of of of people
were displaced from different area and
they uh took Al Al hospital as an as a
uh as a place to stay at as uh they felt
that it's a safe place uh while people
were uh sitting in the yard of the
hospital one missile had that yard
caused hundreds and of of killed people
and
injuries um um he he doesn't have like
exact number but um the Ministry of
Health the spokesperson said like more
than 500 were killed there uh I talk to
eyewitness at the shifah hospital where
the injuries uh referred to and he said
like for more than uh an hour and a half
ambulances um were not stopped to come
and carrying uh injured people in the
beginning then later uh uh buies uh more
than one body were uh in in one
ambulance or even injured people were
taken between two to five in in in each
ambulance arrived to the hospital thank
you so much for that update um we really
appreciate your time that is ham beler a
journalist reporting for us um giving us
that update from Central Gaza many
thanks thank
you we can now speak to our reporter
Rebecca ritters who's in the city of
stat near the border with Gaza Rebecca
what can you tell us about this um this
Str on the hospital in Gaza
City well news started coming in a
couple of hours ago that a hospital had
been struck uh that a Baptist hospital
had been struck in Gaza City and that
there were many casualties videos
started circulating we've now seen some
horrific images coming out of that
hospital this is a place that people
were Sheltering it is in Gaza City it's
an area that was is part of the
so-called evacuation area that the
Israeli military have told people to
move from but there are many people who
aren't able to to make it further south
and there are plenty of people thousands
and thousands of people still trying to
find shelter in areas such as hospitals
like this one and there were people
there obviously patients as well as
people trying to take shelter in this
hospital when it was struck now we don't
know yet what's happened details are
still emerging uh the death toll is
rising at the moment with the
Palestinian Health Ministry saying at
least 500 but from what we're seeing on
the videos it certainly seems and
appears that that death toll could
continue to rise uh um we know that the
the Israeli Defense Forces are saying
that they're investigating it that they
haven't been able to confirm that it was
a strike from uh from them uh and and we
also are hearing that the Palestinian
president Mahmud Abbas has cancelled a
planned trip to Jordan tomorrow to to
attend a summit to with with President
US President Biden went to talk about
humanitarian uh to help that
humanitarian help that they can give to
the Gaza to the people in Gaza and
things that they can a humanitarian plan
I should say that they can put into
place that has been now cancelled and he
has declared 3 days of national mourning
you mentioned it there Israel is denying
it was behind the attack and blames the
incident on Hamas Rockets So what are
the Poss possibilities here because it
seems very murky at this
point murky indeed and I certainly don't
want to comment either way we're waiting
for the details to come out we're
waiting for an investigation uh all the
local media here that are watching this
it's all the coverage is completely and
utterly about this incident at the
moment people talking about speculating
one way or the other looking into ideas
I don't like to speculate we don't know
yet what uh what exactly the situation
is and until we have I won't comment but
but it it it is is likely that it could
have been something else other than an
air strike it could have been an air
strike we just don't know have that
information at the moment there's
Rebecca Ritter in stot thank you so
much